# GitHub

GitHub is an online version control platform build around the premise of
storing, distributing, and collaborating on projects. These projects generally
include programs but they are not limited to just code based projects. It is
important for developers to understand the importance of version control
platforms such as GitHub.

## What is Version Control?

Version control is a form of software that tracks modifications to files and keeps
a historical log of those changes. For the purposes of this repository, you
should as least know this, but consider reading more about version control on
the
[Wikipedia version control page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control).

## Why is Version Control Important?

Version control is an extremely important part of software development. Imagine
that you and another developer are working side by side on a project and one of
you makes a change that breaks an application. Without version control, neither
you nor the other developer would be able to know exactly what changed and thus,
you would not be able to easily understand why the application broke.

Now, consider that any time changes are made they are logged and easily. With
version control this is the case, both you and the other developer would be able
to see the recent changes that occurred between a previously working version of
your application and the now broken version. This allows you to easily pinpoint
the mistakes in an application and resolve them. However, should you be unable
to do this quickly, version control also allows you to roll back changes,
effectively undoing them. When rolling back changes you can get back to a
previously working state and investigate the changes individually, allowing you
as a developer to easily pinpoint the cause of the issue.

## How do I use GitHub?

Using GitHub requires an account, you can make one
[here](https://github.com/join). After making an account, you can interact with
repositories made by others, create your own repositories, and collaborate with
others! These are just a few of the features that GitHub offers so consider
exploring the platform yourself!

## What do I do Next?

1. Learn more about [git](https://git-scm.com) the underlying version control
   software that GitHub relies on.
2. Return to the [README](../README.md) and continue learning!
